You
want me to tell you who the people are? Well, this is
William H. Minkert. And he came from St. Louis,
Missouri. And he was born in 1836 in St. Louis,
Missouri. And what did he do there? Well, he lost
both of his parents when he was real young. And the
story that I remember from it was that his father
had some kind of store, some shop, merchandise
there. And when his father died, I don't know
whether he didn't like his guardian or whoever it
was, he just ran away. And he was real young when he
ran away. I think early teens. And I think that he,
this is my belief, that I remember Daddy saying, is
this too, am I talking too loud? That's fine,
that's fine. That he came down the Mississippi, I
think, river or along it, and he painted scenery
and curtains and all kind of things. things for
opera houses and theaters. Yes, it was a traveling
show. He did that. That's how he earned his way. On
the Mississippi River, the boats too. I thought he
was coming down and maybe he'd stop at different
cities. Because back then, the rivers were the
main form of transportation for industry and
everything. Most of the settlements stemmed
away, branched off. Daddy's dead, and I wanted a
tape recorder when he was living. I wanted to get
all this. Yes, my grandfather does the same thing.
He's deceased now, but we got some real, real tapes
my mom got from him. It's one Christmas Eve they
spent, and it's really nice. He was a poet. He was a
minister, and he used to write poetry, and every
Christmas he'd send us poems. Oh, well, isn't that
wonderful? And did he meet this girl? Well, he
came, and he was in Texas about five or six years, I
think, or something like that, when the Civil War
broke out. And I've written it down on these, and
you can have those if you want them to be verified.
If you don't want them, well, you know, go buy them.
But anyway, in February of 1961, Texas, he ceded
from the union. And he'd been here long enough that
he used loyalties for the Texas. So he entered the
Civil War in September, or August. It was August
the 5th he went to the Civil War. Let's see. He met
her then in Mississippi during the war. Oh, yeah.
And so my sister has letters that he wrote. He wrote
very beautiful handwriting, and he told her, you
know, that he wanted to marry her and that he'd come
get her. And we don't know how they got here,
whether they came by train or, you know, that's
what we'd like to know. That's not in the letters.
Yeah, well, if... Or what? Well, it could have
been. We think they probably came by stagecoach.
Yeah, that's a real good possibility. Probably
did because back then if they did come by boat down
the Gulf, down the coast, Texas coast, I think that
was rather expensive. Yeah. Well, anyway, he told
her that if she would marry him, oh, they wrote each
other. They married in 1867. They had a long
courtship. And he told her that if she would marry
him, that he would take her little sister. Her
father had died, and he said he would accept her
little sister as his own sister. So her sister
came, and her mother came. I don't know exactly
when they came, but he did do that. And the sister
then married a man who lived in Greenville. So they
came, yeah. Let's see what else you'd like to know
about him. Did you happen to know what he did after
he'd gotten married? Yes. Oh, he was a carpenter
and a builder and like a, what do you call it,
cabinet maker? Yes. But the main thing he did was he
had a paint shop, and he painted the buggies. And my
daddy always said that... Grandfather Minkert
could paint buggies. To be a buggy painter, you had
to be the best of anything because people didn't
want any lines ruined. And you had to be a liner to
paint a buggy. You had to be perfect. You couldn't
make one mistake. And Daddy did some of that. He
helped his daddy with it. And he did that. And then
he, let's see, the courthouse before this one, and
I've got it written in there, He painted all the
signs over the doors. You know, they had glass
transoms. And he painted that, and one of my
sisters has one of those when they tore it down. I
was over in Pakistan, so I didn't get one of them.
But his name was underneath the lettering, like
whichever official it was. So he did that, and my
sister said he built the first house that was ever
built in Brian. Oh, do you know whereabouts it was?
Was it right near here, or...? It's on Tabor. Tabor
Road, yes. Tabor and 25th Street. It's a corner of
Tabor and 25th Street. Do you know where the
telephone office is? I don't know the streets, but
I know where Tabor and 25th Street are. Do you know
where the telephone office is across from the
courthouse? Yes, yes. Well, this is at the
opposite end where the telephone office is.
That's where that first house was. And the first
building, I guess it was a commercial building.
Well, at the time, I remember a building. It was a
huge, rambling building. This was built after
that. And it was a bakery. When you'd go in, the bell
would ring, you know. It was real cute. And they had
this wonderful smelling bread. And Mother would
send us to the bakery to get bread. Well, my father
also had a law office right there where the
telephone office is now. in the middle of that
block. The telephone company's office was right
there on the corner toward the courthouse, and
Dad's office was right next to it. And then I've
forgotten what was next to that, but I can't
remember when the streets were paved, but there
was a long time when we used a few. You know, it
wasn't too much paving even when I was in the
sidewalks. Well, how many... children that
Finney did this man have? W.H. Mitchell, he had
five children that lived. And here they are. And I
don't know that you'll want me to give their names,
but this was my father. And they had seven
children, but five of them lived. Two died in
infancy. What do you know? Why is this stuff? Many
children died in infancy. Yes, that's right. With
the measles or something like that. They didn't
have the technology. And they'd have something
they wouldn't even know. Why? I don't know. I never
did anything. They just died in infancy. But, you
know, a lot of the undeveloped countries now, half
of their children die. I don't mean to be laughing
at you. Yeah, I like to say it's true. The mortality
rate is very high. Yeah. So... Let's see what else
he did now. It's a book. It's underlined in red.
Uh-huh. Then, okay, Jesse Gardner Minkert was...
Was my father. Was your father. And William Scott
and Charles Aschel. Ashel. Ashel and Mary Hedman
and Oscar. Oscar, all lived. They all lived. I
didn't give the names of those. We have their
graves out there in the Bryan Cemetery. They all
stayed in the Bryan area? No, Daddy's the only one
that stayed here. What kind of, I don't guess you
know why they left or anything. Well, this one died
as a young man, and he had something like William
Scott died. He had a grocery store in Greenville, I
believe it was. And he had something like, say,
you'd say cholera. It wasn't cholera, but some
epidemic was going on. Yes. And he died in his early
20s. They had cholera epidemics. They had three
different ones. That wasn't what it was. It was
something like pneumonia or something. I don't
remember. I know what it is. My teacher's going to
kill me for this because I can't remember right
now. We just did a big... a big deal on the area. We
did a field trip a couple of weekends ago, and we
traveled through the Brazos Valley. Well, he died
in about 1889, I guess, or 1890, because he was in
his 20s, and Daddy said he had a grocery store. And
what about Charles, ain't you? I think he was a
carpenter, and he moved around. He did come back to
Brian when he was older. He came back and lived with
us. And Mary Edna married a man and she was a teacher
and she married a man and went to Corpus Christi and
lived to be real old. And Oscar went to Greenville
and was a prayer nurse. A prayer nurse. So everyone
was kind of a... towards the handicrafts, you
know, such as... Well, some. She taught, and Daddy
was a lawyer, and they used to rely to that. Well,
Mrs. Fletcher said that your dad was a judge. Well,
he was county attorney twice, I believe, and he was
county surveyor twice, I believe, and county
judge. And I don't know how long he was county
judge. But in general, he just was a practicing
attorney.
Did surveying around here, a lot of the surveying.
He studied law under his uncle? His uncle was the
man, his uncle was Judge Montrose, and he was the
man that this sister that my grandfather said he
would take care of, she took each of his children
into her home at some time to pay him back for caring
for her. And so she had my father there, and he
studied law under this husband of hers. And Edna
lived with her a while, too.
I think some others did, too. But anyway, they must
have been a close family. And Jesse was admitted to
the Texas Bar at 18-6. At the age of 22, that's... He
was real young at the time. I think he was one of the
youngest that was ever admitted for something
somebody said. I have here his...
Here's his write-up. If there's any reason you
need it to... In writing this up, I don't know
whether you'll care about it or not, when he died,
they put that in the bar journal about him, you
know, his career.
And here is his, I found this just recently. You
know, I was gone and things got thrown away. We had
books, and I think I found this in an old book.
Supreme Court, State of Texas. He was... license
to practice on May 29, 1903. Wow. And
we had this Brian Centennial in 1962. Now, Hugh, I
don't know how deep you're going into this,
whether you're just writing something
superficial or not. But is this just for a theme, or
what is it here? Well, we're going to eventually
arrow every student in all the sections. and turn
in their papers, and she's going to kind of get
together, you know, I guess a book of the history of
Bryan College Station. Here was in the centennial
in 1962. That's right up there. Some of the early
ones were written up at that time. Oh, yeah. You can
take that if you want to. Some of it may duplicate.
If you don't want to do it, it's all right. And this
gives Daddy's. It says here, and I didn't realize
that. I was overseas when Daddy died. It said he was
reportedly the oldest living native resident,
the oldest barn resident. And where did that? He
lived here. We lived here always. Except I've
moved off and come back. Did he live, I mean... Oh,
what house did he live in? Was it near here? Oh, I've
got a picture in here. Oh, that's where we lived
when I was born. It was on 29th
and Parker, I believe is the name of that street.
This is our family. So the center of the city has...
It changed. This house is where I was born. I've
been trying to just... Just lately, I'm just
sticking these pictures in here and I want to come
up. And this house has been torn down. I went over to
show somebody the house and they were tearing it
down. And it's on the corner across the street from
St. Anthony Catholic Church and it's on 29th
Street. 208 29th Street was where it was. then as
Daddy and Mother lived in this house at the time
Mother died and Daddy died. That's their home.
It's over on the east side. And that's on 24th
Street. What was the main type of work that was
common in Bryan at that time? Was it a lot of
farming? I think it was mostly farming. I know
cotton was pretty prevalent in the Branson Valley
area. Yeah, well, if you're studying that, you
might know more about that than I do. I was just
curious. They had their different stores, you
know, the merchants. They had the bars and the
restaurants. They had the restaurants. The main
road of travel used to be on, you know, not Texas,
but Collins. Oh, yes. Until they built Highway 6,
right? I asked my sister today, I said, now, my
first memory of the population of Bryan was I
heard, the first time I remember anybody saying
how many people lived in Bryan, and I don't
remember what year that was, but they said, Bryan
is getting so big, it has 8,000 people in it, And
that number stuck with me because I thought, oh,
that's many people. And I said, now, what is the
first time you've heard of the population? And she
said, well, somebody said that Ron had 2,500
people. And they says, oh, you're bragging. So she
remembers. She's eight years older than I am.
If you think about 8,000 people and everybody had a
family of three to five or ten children, everybody
had a big family that we knew. And there would be
five in the family anyway with a father and mother.
Well, that made about 4,000 families and you just
about knew everybody even when I was growing up.
You knew almost everybody in town. You knew the
families. You heard of them or you knew them. So you
pretty well knew what was going on all the time.
Yeah.
That's really interesting.
Do you remember anything about the flooding of the
Brazos River back then or anything like that?
Mother, I was born in the middle of a flood. And I
wasn't born in the middle of the flood. I was born
during the flood of 1913. Have you all studied that
flood of 1913? Yes, we have. Well, Mother has
written down somewhere that I was born during that
flood, and she always told me that, and said it was a
terrible storm and everything, and there was a
girl my age that was born, Mary Cavett was born
during the time, and her father was in the flood,
and from exposure he died. And so she never did know
her father. And I remember there weren't too many
cases like that, you know, and I always thought how
terrible that was.
Was there a lot of blacks in the area back then, in
the Bryan Constitution area? Oh, yes. I was just
talking to these other people in our class, and
they said they interviewed some people, and they
mentioned something about how Certain times of
the day, the white people didn't even walk around
the Brian Cox station outside because that was
when all the black people came into town and all
this other stuff. Did you know that? It was a lot
safer to walk in than it is now, to be sure. Yeah. But
I think my sister told me this morning, she said
down at a certain part in Main Street, down that
lower part, she said they did come to town on
Saturday. Now, that agrees with what you said. And
she said, nobody would go out down that part of
town. And I've forgotten on Saturdays, I do
remember how full town would get. Everybody would
come to town. And that hasn't been, within about 20
years, they stopped doing that on Saturdays. That
was a big day. Was there a, I know the railroad goes
through Brine, did a... Do you remember, or your
parents or anybody ever saying about how it used to
be before the railroad and after the railroad or
the effects or anything like that? No, I didn't
hear anything about that. Because, you know, a lot
of towns back then, their existence depended on,
you know, where the railroad went. Oh, yes, that's
right. Well, of course, the railroad was... Brian
took the, let it stop here, and that's why Brian
grew another, you've heard that, you've read that
too, that's why Brian, instead of Millicent,
became a big team. Right, right. Yeah. And then my
other grandparents who came in 1893, my mother's
parents, came by railroad, and... Their older son
had come to this community, or close to this
community, and he liked Texas and had been here
several years. Who's this now? My mother's. Your
mother's son. They came in 1893, which isn't too
recently. And mother, my grandfather,
McClellan, my father's father-in-law, decided
to bring his whole family. So they came, they sold
everything. What drew them to the area? Well,
their son had come over here and bought a farm. And
he evidently convinced them to come to Texas, too.
Now, this is something. He had nine children. He
had one daughter who was married, and she and her
husband came with them. Or at least if they didn't
come in, they came right afterwards. But he
brought all these children, and the mother was 13,
and she said that she was really afraid because
she'd heard how wild the Texans were. You know,
they're still telling that on us. And she said that
she'd come through, people would come through
looking just wild on the train and they'd say,
that's a Texan. And I'd say, be careful because
that's a Texan. And so Mother said she really was
afraid and said she got here and of course married
one of them. Well, did they send their son to do them
out here? Yes, uh-huh. Well, you know, What had
they done back east? Well, my grandfather was a
preacher. He was a preacher. I guess preachers
could move around better than other people. What
was the basic religion? Was there any one major
religion? I don't know. I think we've had almost
all of them. He was a Baptist. Both of my parents
were Baptists. There were a good many Baptists.
Grandfather McClung and his wife brought their
organ with them. Maybe it was because he was a
preacher they did that. But they brought that. And
my sister said that they ate off of the box that
crated the organ until they could make them a
table. Was wood very hard? No, I don't guess wood
was very hard to come by. No, there was plenty of
wood. I heard that there used to be a lot of cedar
around this area. Did you ever hear of that? Yeah.
Oh, there was a lot. Even until, you know, recent
years. It sure was.
And all this, see this house, where this house is,
was a pasture when I was a girl. All this area over
here with fields and pastures. And I was thinking
the other day, you know, after you told me, You
think about things that happened. Of course, what
I'm saying isn't anything that far back. But it
would say it'd be 50 years ago, which is pretty far
back. That I would remember. And I remember all
these. There wasn't any such thing as a postage
sign, you know. And people didn't care if you
wandered around in their pastures. And kids just
roamed around and had a good time. And we'd ask
people if we could have their grapes or their
dewberries. We'd go in big groups, you know. And it
was wonderful. It was pretty rural when we, you
know, for a long time. Did Bryan expand this way?
Oh, yeah. Or instead of not that way, but towards
College Station area? No, first it expanded east
and then toward College. When did they first
really start recognizing College Station as a
separate little town? Was it very noticeable back
then? Oh, it was always a separate town since I can
remember. Did it basically center around A&M like
it does now? No, I don't think so. There were always
people from A&M that came to church in Brownville.
There have always been communication and
friendships between them. Some people like to act
like there's a You know, there's competition and
all that, but there's always been as many
friendships as there were competition. Oh, just
checking the tape here. Let's see. Is there
anything you want to ask me? Oh, just, you know,
just basically, you know, just things about the
area, you know, that happened, that might have
happened to you, you know, while you were growing
up, anything that really... stands out in your
mind. Well, this is within recent years, but do you
want mostly those things back there during my
grandfather's day? Is that what you want? Is that
what you're trying to get, those things? I'm
trying to get just about everything I can. What do
you know about it? Well, Bryan was the place that
the Hoods Brigade met. You've probably heard that
before. They met here. had their reunions here.
I've forgotten what, I've got the book on that, for
quite a few years and this was the big event in Ryan.
Nothing could match that for, it was just gala, you
know. We just, for about three or four days, they
just put it, rolled out the red carpet and these old
veterans came and they closed the, you know, even
that block on Texas Avenue where the courthouse
is, they'd close that and close all around some,
maybe two blocks. And they'd have speeches and
singing and dancing and entertain these little
old men that just barely could make it, you know? So
there's a man that has written a book just recently
about the reunion of the Hoods Brigade, and he came
to Brian and asked us to tell anything we could
remember, you know? So I said, well... I go home, I
think I've got something in the diary. So I did, and
he says, yeah, that he wanted to use that. And I
wrote that, and as soon as I read what I had written,
well, I remembered it. I said, there were two old
slaves that came, you know, and everybody said,
those are slaves. And he said, well, that was the
first time he'd ever heard of that. Well, it may not
have been slaves. It may have been that they were
Southern soldiers, you know. Maybe that's why
they didn't name them. But they came with the
veterans. So that was interesting to me. And he
said that was the first time anybody had mentioned
that. But I know I wouldn't have said it if it hadn't
been written, because I'd written it in 1933. Oh,
yeah. Well, how often did they have these ? Every
year. Once a year? And this was 1934 was the last
year. I had written it in 1933, so he said that he was
interested in that. Do you remember anything
about the impact of any of the, you know,
country-wide conflicts or anything, how the
impact it had on the Bryan Confliction? Like, you
know, World War I and stuff like that. World War I? I
can remember the end of World War I. I was about
four, let's see, I was about five. And I was the only
one in the family that didn't get to march in the
parade. And I was so humiliated because I had four
brothers and sisters and they marched with flags
in the parade. down Main Street or wherever it was.
And I was too little, of course. Now they'd let
somebody that young in. But I got to watch them
anyway. But I remember that part of it. They said
that they used to tell the joke on me that I was
crying. They were talking about the wars they were
doing for the kids and I was crying. And Mother
said, what's the matter? And I said, well, All the
boys are going to war, and then isn't going to be
anybody left for me to marry except Daddy, and
you've already married him. So you don't put that
in there. But anyway, I do remember it. Yeah,
because a lot of times I break awards and stuff.
Like I'm from San Antonio, and before that I lived
in Monterey, Mexico. And I noticed when I was
little that Although my parents knew what was
going on, political life. I was a little kid. I
didn't know anything about it. It's really
strange because... Well, we had a hard time in the
First World War and the Second World War. There
were many restrictions. You want to turn that
over? No, that's just... There were many...
Necessities, almost, that you did without. And
even as a child, I remember that. And I remember
there was somebody lived in a small house. You know
this house in the picture I showed you? Yeah.
Somebody lived in a small house back of us. And they
sang this song. And even though I was just about
four years old, I remembered it. And we'd sing that
a long time. It said, "'Eat bologna sausage till
the bacon goes down.'" That was some song, and we'd
get tickled. So I thought that was funny. And
everybody had a hard time financially. Yeah. What
about the Depression hit you pretty good, too?
Here? Uh-huh. Oh, yeah, terrible. Because I know
back then, it was basically, was it still a farming
community back then? Were your parents in Mexico
then? No, they just been there since 1950.
But, you know, this was basically a farming
community back then, wasn't it? World War II,
World War II. So I guess it hit pretty hard. Yeah,
there were many, a lot of rationing and
everything. You've probably heard about that. Do
you remember the first time they ever paved the
streets in Brine? I noticed it back then. Back, you
know, whenever it rained, you know, a lot of cities
were always in the mud. I do remember as they paved a
little at a time, you know, a little at a time. And
this Haswell Drive was... I graduated from high
school in 1931, and Haswell Drive, part of it, just
part of it has been paved since we bought this
house. But the park that I went to walk to school on
was paved in 1931, if I remember right, about the
time because it was so muddy. And we... walked to
school in mud all the time. Didn't think about it.
Nobody rode to school. That was more fun than
riding because the whole neighborhood went like
20 or 25 together. You just pick up another family,
you know, as you go along. That was the most fun. I
thought the children miss a lot because we had so
much fun visiting and, you know, talking to each
other and getting acquainted. What was I going to
say? I thought of something. About the paving. And
I guess they'll tell you we had horse troughs, and I
can't remember when they took those horse troughs
out of Main Street, but I remember them being there
at the corners. Right, yeah. I think it's about the
end of this tape there.